#summary Recommendations for smooth cooperation on Altium Addons page
#labels addons,general,commit

= How to commit your script and keep life of other committers easy =

 * The scripts are maintained by SVN repository. 
 * Every script has its own folder in the repository. 
 * Please test your script prior commit, please ask someone else to test it separately if it is possible. 
 * Every commit should contain reasonable description of changes.  
 * Every time you change some file in the script folder please zip entire script folder and place the file into the downloads folder in the repository (someone likes to leave older files there, someone not but doesn't really matter) . 
 * Once the commit is done, please go to the Downloads section on the Addons page and delete previous download link of the modified script and create new one from the zip file in the download folder in repository. Attach all tags and description from previous download link if applicable and update is to comply with current script state. 
 * Front page with list of scripts must be maintained by administrator. But the page itself let the administrator know when some commit is done so main page will be updated asap. It is not needed to let administrator know. 

There are usually question about modifying of code of other author. I believe anybody of the authors will be proud when you push his code forward. 
 * Anybody can modify the code of anybody.
 * There is usually author name in the code header. Leave the name there and add you name with date and short summary of the changes and added capability.
 * Test every aspect of modified script prior commit in respect to the main author.
 * Try to really improve the functionality. 
 * Change the core function or GUI only if it is really needed to keep respect to the work of main author. It means e.g. do not move a button in GUI only because you like to have it elsewhere without any other reason. Really improved ergonomics or changes because of added functionality are considered to be good reason to make any change.  
 * SVN keeps previous code revisions so we can recover previous state when some issues will be reported.